#summary First demo of the annotation storage server.
#labels Demo


= Accounts =

|| Username || Password || Description ||
||demo_admin || admin13579 || Super user account can access the admin interface (/admin/) and do anything with the data|| 
||demo_guest || guest24680 || Limited access account can only view the data, but "add" operations are not permitted. ||


To logout from the current user go to: 
http://128.174.241.84:8080/logout/

= Server parts =

== Admin interface ==

Admin URL: http://128.174.241.84:8080/admin/

Built-in admin interface allows to add users, groups and permissions. The admin interface allows to see and edit any data item as it is stored in the database. *Datasets* and *Annotation types* can be edited using admin interface.

== Annotation display and editing  ==

 * Browsing images: http://128.174.241.84:8080/datastore/data/VOC2008/
 * Browsing a single image annotations: http://128.174.241.84:8080/datastore/dataitem/3/
 * Single annotation display: http://128.174.241.84:8080/datastore/show/annotation/3/

In the image browsing mode, the images are displayed 20 per page. Each image has a link to see the annotations associated with it. The annotations for the image are grouped by type. Each annotation is displayed separately.  A link (">>") goes to the detailed view of the annotation. "(+)" marks annotations with extra annotations attached to them (e.g. with quality judgments or comments).

Add annotations link goes to the page to add a new annotation. 

Any annotation allows to add a quality mark and a comment. These are implemented to allow quality judgments associated with any annotation in the system.

Annotations can be added, but not erased. Unnecessary annotations will eventually be de-activated to remove them from display, but keep in the database.

== Flagging == 

We use flags to mark objects that require additional attention. To mark an annotation with a flag, one can simply click on the flag icon next to the annotation. 

To browse the flagged annotations, one can go to

http://vision-app1.cs.uiuc.edu:8080/datastore/show/flagged_annotations/<dataset>/<annotation_type>/<flag>/p1/

(e.g. 
http://vision-app1.cs.uiuc.edu:8080/datastore/show/flagged_annotations/VOC2008/voc2008_boxes/red/p1/ and http://vision-app1.cs.uiuc.edu:8080/datastore/show/flagged_annotations/VOC2008/voc2008_boxes/blue/p1/)

There are currently 3 [FlagsAnnotation flags]: red (something is really wrong with the annotation), blue(some improvements are possible) and white(the annotation/image shouldn't be considered at all).



= Datasets = 

 # *VOC2008* is the training and validation subset of the VOC2008 dataset.
 # *LabelMe* is a small subset of the LabelMe dataset.


= Annotation types =

(see also http://128.174.241.84:8080/admin/datastore/annotationtype/)

|| Type || Explanation ||
|| quality || 1-10 quality score for the annotation ||
|| comment || plain text comment ||
|| voc2008_boxes || Bounding boxes corresponding to VOC2008 annotations ||
|| LabelMe_boxes || Bounding boxes for LabelMe objects ||
|| sentences  || plain text annotation ||