#summary Documentation on internal parameters of the flash interface.

= Introduction =

Parameters allow to control internal features of the interface representation. The parameters have hierarchical structure similar to [http://pr.willowgarage.com/wiki/Parameter_Server ROS parameter server].

{{{
<task >
<parameters>
<group ns="polygonal_display">
  <param name="number_control_points" value="true"/>
  <param name="tag_font_size" value="55" />
</group>
</parameters>

....

</task>
}}}

The parameters can be specified in the task definition XML. 
Eventually, URL will be supported as well. 

The parameters set in the task definition XML are stored in the namespace {{{/taskdef/}}}. In the example above, the full name of the first parameter is {{{/taskdef/polygonal_display/number_control_points/}}}

Right now only global parameters are supported. Local parameters may be handy.

= Parameters by component =

== Polygonal annotations ==

Parameter location {{{/taskdef/polygonal_display/}}}

 *  *number_control_points* (true, *false*) - Controls, whether the control points of the polygons get numbered. 
 *  *tag_font_size* ( Number, *55*) - Sets the font size for the labels. 

Example:
{{{
<parameters>
<group ns="polygonal_display">
  <param name="number_control_points" value="true"/>
  <param name="tag_font_size" value="25" />
</group>
</parameters>
}}}

Minimum version: 0.1.11

== Tag display for bounding boxes ==

Parameter location {{{/taskdef/bbox2_marker/}}}

 *  *show_object_tag* (*true*, false) - Controls, whether the objects are named. If set to false, the object tags will not appear on display.

Example:
{{{
<parameters>
<group ns="bbox2_marker">
  <param name="show_object_tag" value="true"/>
</group>
</parameters>
}}}

Minimum version: 0.1.13